---
author: admin
date: 2020-04-21
layout: post
slug: 2020-04-21-judaicadh-projects-summary
title: "Review: Judaica DH Projects at Penn Libraries"
categories:
- Reviews
tags:
pull-quote: "Judaica Digital Humanities at Penn Libraries uses digital technologies
to augment & transform the ways in which to explore Jewish history."
---

### Roundup: JudaicaDH Projects at Penn Libraries {#1a67 .graf .graf--h3 .graf--leading .graf--title name="1a67"}

Thanks to a start-up gift from the Gershwind-Bennett Families, Judaica
Digital Humanities at Penn Libraries launched in 2016 in order to
support research and development in digital humanities to the field of
Jewish studies. But we’ve been working on JudaicaDH-related projects for
even longer. If you saw [our announcement late last
year](https://www.library.upenn.edu/blogs/libraries-news/2019/12/02/gifts-from-arnold-and-deanne-kaplan-totaling-12-million-enrich-judaic-scholarship-and-digital-humanities-at-the-university-of-pennsylvania-libraries),
we’re moving towards a new phase of JudaicaDH. Let’s show you some of
the projects in our history!

* * * * *

You probably know us for **Scribes of the Cairo Geniza**, a multilingual
crowdsourcing project to classify & transcribe fragments of medieval and
premodern manuscripts. In addition to the site, we have [this
blog](http://medium.com/@judaicadh) & an [open-access
repository](https://repository.upenn.edu/cairogeniza/) for related
materials. Visit us at
[scribesofthecairogeniza.org](http://scribesofthecairogeniza.org)and
uncover unknown chapters of the history & culture of medieval Jews.

* * * * *

Our **Digital Second Edition of Judaica Americana** is under
development, bringing together digitized Jewish publications into one
location. We released [Singemran’s draft as an open-access PDF and
dataset](https://repository.upenn.edu/judaica_americana/) for you to
download.

* * * * *

The [**Freedman Jewish Sound
Archive**](http://sceti.library.upenn.edu/freedman/learn_today.cfm)
contains over 4,000 recordings in Yiddish, Hebrew, and Ladino from the
19th and 20th centuries. Browse the lists of composers, lyricists,
performers, song titles, and albums, and use our trilingual search
database for keywords and names.

* * * * *

How did Christians in the Americas learn to read Hebrew? The
[**Bibliotheca Hebraica
Atlantica**](https://judaicadh.github.io/bibliothecahebraicaatlantica/)
includes datasets of the specific library editions with online access to
help visualize patterns of learning found in the colonial libraries of
the Atlantic World. This project aims to explore volumes of such texts
that crossed the Atlantic during the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries and were available as reading materials in institutional and
private libraries.

* * * * *

The [**Jesselson-Kaplan American Genizah
Project**](http://ubuwebser.cajs.upenn.edu/agproject.php) is an
international initiative to integrate digital technologies into the way
we study early American Jewry. Its primary goal is to create an open
access digital repository or “genizah” of physically dispersed primary
sources that document the development of Jewish life in the western
hemisphere from the 16th-19th centuries.

We have a few projects under this initiative, including:

The [**Gershwind-Bennett Isaac Leeser Digital
Repository**](http://leeser.library.upenn.edu/ilproject.php) brings
together Isaac Leeser’s correspondence, the Occident, and various
publications for easy discovery. Our Leeser site now contains digital
images of over 2,100 original letters. Each letter has been transcribed
so that it can be easily read, and each letter has been encoded using
TEI, to allow for the most sophisticated type of full text search and
discovery. The entire *Occident*, including most of the rare advertiser
wraps that originally accompanied the monthly issues, has been encoded
in XML, segmented files in partnership with the National Library of
Israel, and Leeser’s publications have been converted from ASCII files
into fully searchable OCR documents.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*O1h4qRt4SXmHOH8AYF8aaQ.png)

The Occident

The **Sabato Morais Papers Digitization Project**, which includes [**The
Sabato Morais Ledger**](http://sceti.library.upenn.edu/morais/) and the
**Sabato Morais Digital Repository** (under development.) The
Italian-born Morais is chiefly remembered by historians as the founder
and first president of the Jewish Theological Seminary, established in
New York City in 1886. He also was an outspoken intellectual force whose
public concerns, such as religious freedom, human rights, antislavery
and the abolition of the death penalty were national and international
in scope. By making these writings and correspondence of Sabato Morais
digitally available, researchers have access to primary sources that
document the development of observant Jewish life in the broad context
of Victorian culture on both sides of the Atlantic during the nineteenth
century. In the ledger, one can browse more than 500 pages of the ledger
and learn about Sabato Morais’ personal scrapbook of newspaper
clippings, pamphlets, circulars, and typescripts that he collected
during his lifetime (1823–1897).The latter will have digitized & TEI
encoded writings and correspondence from the Sabato Morais Papers.

* * * * *

The [**Moldovan Holy Land Map
Collection**](http://sceti.library.upenn.edu/moldovanmaps/index.cfm)
contains 94 maps from the 15th-18th centuries, and their high-res
digital facsimiles for your review. The majority of the maps were
printed in the 17th and 18th centuries in Amsterdam, Antwerp, Basel,
Lyon, Paris, Rome, Strassburg, Tuebingen, and Venice. There are over
fifty cartographers and engravers represented, including Adrichem,
Bunting, Calmet, Hole, Mercator, Munster, Ortelius, Visscher, Wit, and
Ziegler. It also features the unique surviving copy of [Antonio De
Angelis’s map of
Jerusalem](http://sceti.library.upenn.edu/moldovanmaps/about.cfm#),
printed in Rome in 1578.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*68Ks_ge7-ZuX95NS6ajZjA.jpeg)

* * * * *

The [**Zucker Holy Land Travel
Manuscript**](http://sceti.library.upenn.edu/zucker/)takes users on a
tour through the Holy Land as it was known, geographically, both in
Biblical times and at the end of the 17th century. It describes many
sites of Biblical significance, starting with Damascus and ending with
the grave of Mary. The author of this German manuscript was equally
interested in the Holy Land’s geography and cartography; flora and
fauna; history; ethnicities; economy; and languages. View over 500 pages
of text, maps, and illustrations (with transcriptions when possible).

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*J0Qho1qH_eA70gorAM-WYA.jpeg)

From the Zucker Holy Land Manuscript

* * * * *

The [**Arnold and Deanne Kaplan Collection of Early American
Judaica**](https://kaplan.exhibits.library.upenn.edu/) documents an
astonishingly broad range of commercial, social, religious, political,
and cultural ties that connected Jews and the general public from the
early colonial era through the onset of mass migration at the end of the
nineteenth century. The collection includes records of everyday lives,
families, businesses, communal institutions, religious organizations,
voluntary associations, and political circumstances of Jewish life. It
provides a unique window into the changing character of colonial life
and culture around the Atlantic world and within the United States and
it documents changing perceptions and experiences of new worlds of space
and time, not only from the perspective of its Jewish colonists and
citizens but also in the context of the larger societies in which they
have lived.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/400/1*UFK1qmH4Y8Gmn8Mcw_xEig.jpeg)

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*heM5g-13tTrzH7nKKjHSug.jpeg)

Trade card; Sam Isaacs & Bros.; Tacoma, Washington, United
States; undated.

* * * * *

[**Envisaging the Holy Lands**](http://pennds.org/holyland/) includes
over 18,000 images from Penn Libraries Holy Land Digital Images
Collections. To accompany the exhibit, the inaugural Judaica Digital
Humanities Coordinator Laura Eckstein used a facial recognition Python
script to comb through the corpus & made collections of the various
faces.

* * * * *

You can view all our projects on our website,
[https://judaicadh.github.io](https://judaicadh.github.io/projects#portfolioModal11).

By [Judaica DH at the Penn Libraries](https://medium.com/@judaicadh) on
[April 21, 2020](https://medium.com/p/6ac3cfdf6a4b).

[Canonical
link](https://medium.com/@judaicadh/roundup-judaicadh-projects-at-penn-libraries-6ac3cfdf6a4b)

Exported from [Medium](https://medium.com) on May 11, 2020.
