---
title: Project 2
date: 2016-10-02 00:00:00 Z
---

---
title: Cairo Geniza Zooniverse Project
date: 2016-10-02 00:00:00 Z
categories:
- current
subtitle:
courtesy: Baraita De-Melekhet Ha-Mishkan, VI-X. 1r. Halper 03. Cairo Genizah Collection,
  University of Pennsylvania Center for Advanced Judaic Studies. Accessed November
  30, 2016.
link: http://sceti.library.upenn.edu/pages/index.cfm?so_id=21140
layout: default
modal-id: 1
img: geniza
thumbnail: genizathumbnail
alt: Cairo Geniza Fragment
project-date: October 2016
partners: "Marina Rustow, Khedouri A. Zilkha Professor of Near Eastern Studies and
  Professor of History, and Director of the Princeton Geniza Lab; Eve Krakowski, Assistant
  Professor of Near Eastern Studies and the Program in Judaic Studies at Princeton
  University, Princeton Geniza Lab; Jean Bauer, Associate Director of the Digital
  Humanities Center at Princeton; Jessica Goldberg, Associate Professor of History
  at the University of California, Los Angeles;  David Kraemer, Joseph J. and Dora
  Abbell Librarian and professor of Talmud and Rabbinics at The Jewish Theological
  Seminary; Moshe Lavee, lecturer in Talmud and Midrash in the department of Jewish
  History at the University of Haifa, and co-head of the Inter-disciplinary Centre
  for Genizah Research and Education in Haifa, and the chair of the Early Judaism
  and Rabbinic Program in the European Association of Biblical Studies; Sinai Rusinek;
  The Zooniverse."
description: We are the recipients of an in kind grant from the Zooniverse to transcribe
  medieval manuscript fragments from the Cairo Genizah. Zooniverse is a non-profit
  crowdsourcing platform that has over 1.5 million 'citizen scientists' who will help
  to work on transcribing these fragments. The in-kind grant is part of an approximately
  1.2 million dollar IMLS grant Zooniverse was awarded and is dispersing over four
  transcription projects, two text and two audio. Over the next three years they will
  receive extensive developer time from Zooniverse to build a framework that not only
  allows for the transcription of Geniza fragments but also allows for the classification
  of these fragments into their general genre, whether literary (religious text),
  or documentary (non-religious- text), and then their more specific genre, as well
  as language and script characteristics. Students and the general public also will
  have the opportunity to benefit from encountering these fragments online and from
  learning how to transcribe them as members of this citizen scientist community.
  We see this project as a way for people with shared interests and different skill
  levels from around the world to meet in a common endeavor. We also see this as a
  way to develop new tools for citizen scientists throughout the world to learn to
  read a variety of scribal hands and to open texts accessible only to a handful of
  specialists to millions of people.
  projectlink:
  https://www.zooniverse.org/projects/judaicadh/scribes-of-the-cairo-geniza
  ---
